# A.I.-Wumpus_World
Wumpus World is an Artifical Intelligence assignment split into multiple sections. The first part being that the wumpus had to figure out a way to escape the map by traversing to the spot in the bottom, left-hand corner. The next part was finding the wumpus in the map, shooting it, and escaping. Then, we had to find the gold on the map and escape the map. The final part of our assignment was traversing in the dark. The player cannot see where they are going and has to be able to traverse the map as much as it can. 

Wumpus World was built using recursion and the ability to lok ahead to the next spot. It works by checking the next spot to the left, right, up, and down from where the player currently is. If the next spot is not a wall, pit, or wumpus, it will move there. If there are more than two spots that are good to move to, it will select the shortest distance to the item it needs (gold, wumpus, or escape depending on the problem). It will recursively look at every spot on the map and move accordingly.

When ran, the program will appear with a GUI of the map and the player. The map will be blacked out to show that it is pitch-black. The only spot that we can see is the spot the player is at. From there, it will begin looking at all possible spots and move. It will try to move to the most amount of spots it can before leaving the map. In some cases, there are blue stinks which is a warning that there is a pit nearby. In addition, there are also green stenches that surround the wumpus on the map. The player will try to avoid spots nearby both the stenches and stinks to avoid running into a pit or the wumpus. If possible, the player will also try to get the gold, thus increasing the points. At the end, the console will display the player's actions and the total points won. 
